General notes and observations about shql that don't really seem to fit
anywhere else.

Paths:
    When shql uses a database it changes into the directory where that database
    resides. Before doing so it saved the path it was run from. This path is
    used with certain commands. When reading a file into the query buffer or
    writing the query buffer out to a file this saved path is prepended to the
    file name unless the file starts with a "/". If the file name starts with a
    "/" it is assumed to be a absolute path. When starting a sub shell or
    running a shell command via the /s and /! commands shql changes to the
    original path first. When a new shell is started the new path is lost, when
    executing shell commands the path is updated. This allows you to change
    directories with the command "/! cd PATH". This does not apply to commands
    that may be run in SQL statements. There is no easy way to identify this,
    so always use absolute paths.

Finding Databases:
    When shql is started it searches for the database in the paths specified by
    the environment variable $SHQL_PATH. If the database name starts with ".",
    "/" or "~" it is assumed the path to the database is specified. Shql
    attempts to use that path and will not search in $SHQL_PATH. This also
    applies when creating a database with the -c command.

Shell Commands:
    shql uses the shell /bin/sh. This means when a shell command is run via /s,
    /! or in an SQL statement it is run with the same shell. The commands also
    have access to the variables in use by shql. Caution should be exercised
    that the variables are not manipulated.

Column Names:
    Column names should only contain the characters a-z, A-Z, 0-9 and _.
    Because of the addition of math characters like - and + are not allowed.
    This can be worked around by quoting the table name with double quotes. If
    this is done the table name will always have to be quoted because it will
    be stored with the double quotes. Spaces should never be used.

csv2shql:
    The program tries it's best to do the right thing. It's not possible
    thought to make it handle every possible case. When the -c option is
    supplied it replaces spaces with underscores "_". Any other invalid
    characters are not dealt with and will cause an error with shql.

* in select:
    Due to the way SQL statements are parse and the addition of math * only
    means "all columns" when it is in the first column position in a SELECT
    statement. If it is after a column name it means multiplication.
